The terminology we use in our project 

a. Frontend
b. Backend
c. Server
d. Client
e. Web Panel
f. Mobile App
g. API
h. Cloud
i. Database
j. Cache
k. Static Files
l. Proxy

The tools are used
AWS(EC2,S3,ElasticBeanstalk,Cloudwatch)
jenkins
Docker
Mysql
mongoDB
Terraform
Graffana
NOdejs
NPM
PM2
Nginx(web-server)



As Devops engineer  role 

Project name -LMS 

Cloud-based Learning management system of Grand Canyon University. It allows GCU students to learn online using the class feature. Every class has Instructors assigned. Students can participate in discussion forums, submit assignments and can take online quizzes etc.



Daily activites-

We (our team) used to manage infrastruture in AWS
EC2-created instances 
    assign elastic ip and added custom port and did all the configuration 
    Trouble shooting 
    change port and connect to the instance 
 S3 -used for app backup
     creation of bucket


Elastic Beanstalk -
maintaining app-server
check the status of instance 
like whether the instance is in severe state degrade state or warning state


Cloudwatch-to check logs in loggroups and loginsight
added widges as per requirement to check how many document has processed per day

Jnekins - Installed and configuration from Scratch  given credentials access,added ssh-key to run jenkins job ,added .env file in jenkins file.
we create two pipeline basically one is API and another one is WEB

Api we use node js , npm tool for build and we use pm2 for easily restart the server 

In API-Pipeline the below steps we do
 1. In first stage the initialization is done
 2.In 2nd stage the code can clone from repo
 3.we setup the environment nothing but our all configuration how the work is done
 4.then the build is done by NPM tool , the code pulled from github (package.jsonfikle)
 5.then the deploy is done in the destination path at the same time save in pm2 
 6. Workspace will be wipeout

Docker project -
Installation and configuration
 Created a docker file (developer) push the same docker file after build is done 
by followd some command the same command added into the pipeline.

create images from the dockerfile
pull the image from docker hub using docker pull lts command 
create container and run jenkins on docker hosted on EC2 , by portforwarding 
run docker commands.


 Nodejs-

 NodeJS with N package/installation for jenkins job
 Pm2- PM2 services and it’s arguments(pm2 start, pm2 stop, pm2 logs,pm2 delete)


Terraform-
created terraform script to create Ec2 instances , S3 bucket on immidiate basis.
Ec2 module, S3 Module.


MongoDB-
Mongobd with replica set
 . NoSQLbooster as a client to connect DB server
 . Created users and given access of databases to the developers

Nginx-

Installation 
Backend configuration
added listening port

Git-
a. Created repos
i. Add existing project to the git repository
ii. Build from scratch
b. Cloning a repo
c. Git add, remove, commit, push and status commands and its understanding.
d. Create branch 
e. View branches
f. Git logs

Mysql-

We used to get some ticket and work on that
for example one facultyis unable to access any class
 for the above issue we first check in the HALO learn app where we can see which is faculty is assigned with which class then we need to immpersonate the faculty to the particular classroom 
Then we write below query
(select,run,update,delete,like)





